The story of a tortoise and a man named Tela.
The tortoise was a very sensible animal, and very friendly with a man named Tela. 
There was a dearth of food in the land, and Tela knew where he could get food, but the tortoise did not know. 
Now and again Tela went to this place to get food and ate there, whilst the tortoise was sick with hunger.
Then said the tortoise, “You are a friend, yet you never show me where you get food; you look fat, but I get nothing to eat.” 
Then Tela said, “I thought of taking you, but I know you to be wise, and I fear that you will go to my place without my permission, so that I do not tell you.”
One day, however, Tela promised to take the tortoise to the place, and he found when he had come to it that the place was a rock. 
And Tela sang, saying 
(Chorus), “This rock must open because the owner of the house has come ! I ‘Prince Tela.’” 
Then the rock opened and they went inside and ate to their satisfaction.
After they had finished the tortoise tried to take food home to his wife, and after a while they parted, each to his own home. 
On the second day, when Tela was away, the tortoise went around the country, and invited all the people that they should come to Tela's place and get food.
So they made arrangements for a certain day when all should go to the place, and arriving at the rock the tortoise sang 
(Chorus), “This rock must open because the owner of the house has come ! I ‘Prince Tela.’” 
and the rock opened, not knowing it was the tortoise who sang, and the animals finished all the food in the store.
When they had finished the tortoise said, “I will be the last to go.” 
So they all went, and whilst the tortoise was going, the middle of the rock fell on him.
In a short while Tela felt hungry and, going to the rock to feed, saw the head of the tortoise projecting. 
And Tela said, “How is it that I find you here? 
When I brought you here the day before yesterday you promised you would not come, but now you have come and friends with you.” 
But the tortoise said, “Get me out and don't talk.” 
And Tela, being hungry, commenced to sing as before, and the rock opened. 
Now Tela was very hungry, and, not staying to talk to the tortoise because of the food he thought lay before him, went in and saw that all was eaten, and nothing was left. 
So angry was he that he caught the tortoise and was about to crush him, when the tortoise said, “Have patience and I will tell you all.” 
Then, “To admit a fact,” continued he, “there is something that always makes me tell things I ought not to tell.”
Then said the hungry Tela, “I have no time for this sort of thing,” and broke him on the rock and smashed him all to pieces. 
Afterwards the big ants and all manner of insects collected, and put him together again.
They all did the best they could, but they could not mend his back properly, and so the joins where they mended him show on the back of the tortoise to this day.