We do not really mean, we do not really mean, (that what we are going to say is true)
YOU ARE AS WONDERFUL AS ANANSE, THE SPIDER 
ANANSE, the Spider, was once living there, when Nsia, the mother of the Sky-god, became ill. 
They went and fetched a medicine-man to come and attend her. 
When he came, he claimed a deposit of a pereduan of gold dust (i. e. £8) for attending to her sickness. 
Now, Ananse went and told the Sky-god, saying, "This fellow is taking your gold dust for nothing; he is not able to look after her, so let me look to her for you, and if I do not look after her, my head can be forfeit." 
Ananse took an asuanu's-worth of gold dust (i. e. £4), and he said to the Sky-god, "If I should be unable to cure this sickness, I shall give you a live lion." 
Next morning, when things became visible, Nsia, the mother of Nyankonpon, the Sky-god, had departed. 
They said, "Ananse, what about it? " 
Ananse left that place; he has fled. 
Now, speech and its left behinds (i. e. I forgot to mention that) Ananse's greatest friend was Okusie, the Rat. 
He told the Rat what had happened, saying, "That is what I have seen, so now you must help me." 
The Rat replied, " In what way can I help you? "
(Ananse) replied, " I want you to go and dig a tunnel until it reaches under the raised mound upon which the Sky-god sits." 
The Rat said, "I shall do it for you." 
So he made it. 
The Rat came and informed Ananse, saying, "I have finished." 
Ananse went and called his son, Ntikuma; and he cut a horn for him; and he told him to go into the tunnel and sit beneath the raised mound, and, when he saw that the Sky-god had seated himself on the raised mound, he must sound his horn and say: "When you kill Ananse, the tribe will come to ruin! When you pardon Ananse, the tribe will shake with voices!"
Ntikuma went and sat down beneath the reception seat, and Ananse set out, saying he was going to Nyankonpon, the Sky-god, there of his own accord. 
When he went, then the Sky-god's executioners caught hold of him; they took him before the Sky-god. 
Then the spokesman said to him, " You, Kwaku Ananse, you said to Nyankonpon, the Sky-god, that if his mother, Nsia, died, that he might kill you; so because Nsia has departed, therefore we shall kill you." 
Ananse said, "You must allow me to state my case." 
But the executioners seized hold of him in order to go and kill him. 
Ntikuma raised (his voice): "When you kill Ananse, the tribe will come to ruin!
When you pardon Ananse, the tribe will shake with voices!"
They said, " Listen, listen! " 
And again the horn sounded: " When you kill Ananse, the tribe will come to ruin! When you pardon Ananse, the tribe will shake with voices!"
Then the Kontirehene chief rose up to inform the Sky-god, saying, " This tribe belongs to you, Sky-god, and to Ya, Old-mother-earth. To-day you have got Ananse and are about to kill him. Ya, Old-mother-earth, says, 'Let him go,' so if you let him go, it will be well." 
Then the Sky-god made the executioners release him. 
That is why there is a saying, " You are as' wonderful as Ananse."
This, my story, which I have related, if it be sweet, (or) if it be not sweet, take some elsewhere, and let some come back to me.