The story of the two wives, pointing out how one should always be content with the things that are given one.
Of the two wives of one husband the one had plenty of money, the other was very poor. 
So poor was the second that she had no winding-cloth," but tied her child on to her back with leaves, and she lived by gathering leaves from the bush and selling them.
One day as usual, she went into the bush to gather these leaves and with her took her child. 
Before gathering the leaves she laid the child on the ground and then went away about her work. 
While she was away an ape took the child to the top of a tree and sat there playing with it.
Coming back and seeing no child the woman cried, and the ape looked down at her. 
The ape playing with the child jogged it up and down, and the child cried, and the mother looking up saw those two on the tree-top.
Then she commenced to sing (Chorus), and in response the ape danced, and dancing jumped from tree to tree coming down by degrees. 
Still the mother sang on, and still the ape danced, always approaching the ground, so charmed that it never noticed its descent; until at the last, the child still in its arms, it stood on the ground. 
Then the ape gave back the child to the mother, saying, “How is it that such a fine singer as you are, comes into the bush to cut leaves every day?” 
And the woman said, “I am so poor that it is my trade.” 
Then the ape pointed to a path and said, “When you go by that road you will see a small path on the left; this you must take, and in a little while you will see a certain tree bearing many fruits upon its top. 
Any of those fruits that call out ‘Pluck me, pluck me,' you must not touch, but gather only those that remain silent.” 
And the woman did as the ape suggested, and came to the place, finding it all as the ape had said.
And some of the fruits said, “Pluck me, pluck me,” but she left them alone, taking only those that remained silent.
Then returning she told the ape what she had done, and showed him the fruit that she had gathered.
And the ape said, “When you get home, shut yourself into your room and open the fruit.” 
And when the woman reached home she did as she was told by the ape, and opening the fruit saw much money and wearing apparel.
These she divided into three parts, giving one to the other wife, but the latter was not satisfied, and said, “Never mind, I know where you got the fruit; I will go myself and get my own.”
Next day she carried out her intention, taking her child with her, and, going a small way into the bush, got rid of the winding-cloth and took leaves to tie her child on, as the first woman had done. 
Then she laid the child down on the ground on the same place and went about cutting leaves. 
The ape had gone out, but when it returned and saw the child, it was surprised, and said, “How can it be that the woman thus ungratefully returns; she must be a very covetous woman; nevertheless I will try her and see why it is she returns again.” 
So the ape took up the child, and the woman sang as did the other woman (Chorus), and the ape danced and came down to the ground dancing as he did before.
Then the ape gave the child to the woman and said, “Were you not satisfied with what you got yesterday? ''
Instead of confessing that she was not the same but another woman, she replied, “I am not satisfied, I want more.” 
So the ape gave her the same instructions that he had given to the first woman, viz., that she should pluck only the silent fruits.
But when she got to the tree she said, “I wonder what sort of a person this ape took me for; I am not such a fool as to do this thing,” and she plucked the fruits that cried out, “Pluck me, pluck me,” and not those the ape told her to pluck. 
Coming back from the tree she showed the ape the fruits, and he told her, as he told the other woman, to go home and open them.
The woman did as she was told and opened the fruits, and found not gold and wearing apparel, but snakes and bad beasts of all kinds, which began to bite her and tear her to pieces. 
Hence people should be satisfied with what is given them.