How the tortoise helped the animals.
All the animals in the world collected together because there was no rain, and their children began to die of thirst.
Then, seeing how fast they died, the animals went to the Babalawo who were at that time the ground-rats, and asked of them, “How can we live when there is no rain ?" 
Then the Babalawo took Ifa (nuts of the palm-tree with the shell on), and the big chief ground-rat asked of the Ifa when there would be water. 
And the rat said, “Yes, there will be water to-morrow.” 
After he had said this, he continued, “Go to a certain place and you will find a big stream.”
The first animal that went to verify this statement found the water, but was unable to approach and drink because of the multitude of fishes, snails, and crabs who sang out 
(Chorus), “Ti barua, ti barua, o, i gi, ti barua, ti barua.”
Then all the animals desired to choose another animal, and Afafa (a beast like a small dog) said he would go to the river and drink. 
But the others said, “No, you make too much noise” (Afafa barks greatly at night). 
“You can do nothing.”
And Afafa was annoyed, and went into the bush, holding himself aloof from the others until this day. 
So they sent another animal to find the water, but when he got there the fishes and crabs all sang 
(Chorus), “Ti barua, ti barua, o, i gi, ti barua, ti barua.”
so that he could not drink. 
So they chose their King the Elephant, but the Elephant was also obliged to say, “I have been, but could not drink.”
Then the stag offered to go, saying he would kill all these beasts with his horns; but when he got to the river he could do nothing. 
Then said the leopard, “I will kill them all with my claws,” but the fishes all sang 
(Chorus), “Ti barua, ti barua, o, i gi, ti barua, ti barua.” 
and he had to come back, having been unable to do anything. 
Whilst they all consulted the tortoise came in, and complimented them, and said, “What do you here?”
And they said, “You go away.” 
But the tortoise said, “I only came to see what is the matter, for three days you have had a meeting. 
What then is wrong?"
And some said, “Go, you are nobody,” but others said, “Stay, never mind his size, hear all his words.” 
And they told him all the circumstances of the case.
Then the tortoise said he would assist them, but they all mocked, saying again, “Go away; now you know what we have done. Go.” 
Still the tortoise remained and said, “If I can’t do it, yet will I show you the way. 
Who told you of the river ?” 
And they said, “The ground-rat.” 
Then answered the tortoise, “The matter is simple. 
Go to him and say, “We see the river but we cannot get near it.’”
And they did as he said and went to the ground-rat, saying, “We have seen the river for three days but could not approach.” 
Then said the rat, “Why did you not come to me at once and tell me the first time ? ” 
Then said he, “Call the vulture,” and they called him and sent him with one animal to the river. 
And the rat directed that the vulture should hold himself in readiness when the animal commenced drinking. 
When they got to the edge of the river the vulture came down and stood on the bank, and, when the other animal began to drink, the fish all called out 
(Chorus), “Ti barua, ti barua, o, i gi, ti barua, ti barua.”  
But the vulture dug his beak into the water, and, pulling them out, flung them on the bank, so that from that day all the toads and frogs live on the margin of the river; and the animals all drank, while the rats still worship the Ifa, and if you go to their holes you will see the nuts there to this day.
Then having drunk, the animals all went to the tortoise to give thanks, but when they got to the place where he was they could not see him, but trod upon him, and it is their foot-marks you see upon his back to this day, while to avoid their treading he still lives under the leaves.