We do not really mean, we do not really mean, (that what we are going to say is true)
HOW IT CAME ABOUT THAT ANANSE, THE SPIDER, WENT UP ON THE RAFTERS
ANSE O ! he married the daughter of Nsia, the mother of the Sky-god, and he went and said to Nyame (the Sky-god), "The day your mother, Nsia, dies, come and tell me the date chosen for the funeral custom."
About three day later they came and told him that Nsia, the mother of the Sky-god, was dead. 
Now Ananse's blood-relations were 'Berekuo, the King Jay, Kwakuo, the Monkey, and Odwan, the Sheep. 
Then Ananse addressed them, saying, " They have come and told me about a funeral custom, so you must accompany me." 
So Ananse caused (a message) to be sent to the Sky-god that he was coming to the ceremony.  
Then the Sky-god caused all his subjects to gather, just like the assembly of an Omanhene. 
And Ananse said, "When evening falls cool, I shall come." 
The Spider made a bag, and inside it he put 'Berekuo, the King Jay, Kwakuo, the Monkey, and Odwan, the Sheep, and he slung the bag over his shoulder, and wrapped his cloth over it.  
Then he addressed the creatures, saying, "When I reach the Sky-god's there, you must weep." 
When he arrived before the Sky-god, the 'Berekuo lifted up (his voice):" Kurukusu, ku! ku ! ku! Kurukusu, ku! ku! ku! ni."
And the Monkey raised (his voice) : "Kakum!"
And the Sheep raised (his voice): "Me!"                    .
This was the lamentation of Kwaku Ananse. 
All the people said, " You have done well, here is one man who can weep and lament in three different ways." 
When he had finished (his lamentation), the Sky-god looked out for a fine house for him to live in.  
Next morning, when things became visible, the Sky-god cooked fine food and gave it to Ananse. 
When Kwaku Ananse saw this food, he said (to him­ self), " I shall not give any to 'Berekuo, I shall not give any to Kwakuo, I shall not give any to Odwan, for I have fasted for a long time." 
So Ananse ate, he did not give his blood-relations any. 
Now, he and they remained on and on, and the Sky-god said, "We will hold the eight-day funeral celebration." 
But the Sheep said (to Ananse), "Hunger is killing me, I am not going"; Kwakuo and 'Berekuo said the same thing.
Now the Sky-god went to sit among the assembled people, and he caused them to inform Ananse that the fine thing which he did the other day, he may do it again, for he and his elders were assembled (to listen to it).
Ananse replied, "I  do not feel well."  
Next day the Sky-god said to Ananse, "You have made my eyes drop for shame." 
And 'Berekuo, and Kwakuo, and Odwan said," We too, you have caused us to be hungry, so we and you will split away from the clan." 
So Kwakuo and 'Berekuo went off to the bush, but Odwan, the Sheep, remained at home; and the Spider jumped and flattened himself against the rafters; that was because he was ashamed.
This, my story, which I have related, if it be sweet, (or) if it be not sweet, take some elsewhere, and let some come back to me.
