We do not real{), mean, we do not real[y mean, (that what we are going to say is true)
WHY ANANSE, THE SPIDER, RUNS WHEN HE IS ON THE SURFACE OF THE WATER
KWAKU ANANSE, the Spider, went and said to Okraman, the Dog," I would like that I and you go and build a small village in which to reside." 
The Dog said," I, too, would like that." 
Ananse said, "When a Sunday­ Adae falls, on the following Monday, go and get a rope-creeper; I, too, will get a rope-creeper and we will set out. 
Again, I will take a gourd and fill it with water, and you, too, splash some, for perhaps, where we are going, there may not be any water. 
Ananse splashed some water; the Dog, too, got honey to put in (his) gourd. 
They were going along, and had reached half-way, when they became tired. 
Ananse said, "Let us drink some of our water." 
The Dog said, " Have some of mine to drink." 
Ananse took some, and touched his mouth; he said, " Oh, where did this come from?" 
The Dog said, "It is in my belly." 
The Spider said, " Yes! "  
As they sat there to get their breath back, Ananse said, " Dog, let us join in play." 
The Dog said, " What kind of play? " 
The Spider replied, " The binding-binding game; you bind me first, then I, too, shall bind you, but when you hear me say, 'Wui ! ' then you leave off." 
The Dog said, "No, do you tie me up first." 
The Spider said, "Take yourself off, when your elder is telling you something, do you argue about it?" 
The Dog said, "Well, let it remain (as you wish)." 
The Spider said," Come and tie me up." 
The Dog took his rope-creeper and bound up the Spider. 
And he took him up on his head, saying he was going to sell him that he might get something to eat.  
When Ananse heard that, he raised a lament and said:" I, Ananse Akuamoa, I have not even got a proper kind of beast to sell me; Only this fool of a Dog, he is going to sell me. Whom can I get to save me? 0, Path, save me! "
Ananse could only cry and cry. 
The Dog carried him until he reached some stream. 
Now, Odenkyem, the Crocodile, heard the Spider crying.
When he came, he asked the Dog what was the matter. 
The Dog threw Ananse down, and ran away, and the Crocodile loosed Ananse. 
And Ananse said, "Father, what kind of thing can I give you to show how grateful I am?" 
The Crocodile said, "We do not desire anything at all." 
Ananse said, "If  you have children, then to-morrow I shall come and dress their hair for them very becomingly."
The Crocodile said, "I have heard." 
Ananse came home; he said, "Aso, go and seek palm-nuts and onions, for to-morrow I am going to kill and bring back a crocodile that we may have a soup stew to eat." 
Aso went and got some, and the Spider sharpened his knife and mashed eto, and took it to the stream. 
He said, " Father Crocodile, the Water-animal, I am coming to reward you." 
And he took the pounded yams and put them in the water. 
The Crocodile came, and he was about to take the pounded yams to eat, when the Spider took his knife and cut at him, gyal but he did not get him (properly), and he went off. 
Ananse returned home.
Aso asked him, saying, "Where is that animal? " 
Ananse said, " Take yourself off; a person comes off a journey, and hasn't even got his breath back, and you begin to bother him with questions." 
Aso said, " I have seen that you did not get him." 
Ananse did not say anything. 
Next morning, very early, Aso said she was going to the stream. 
When she got there, there was the Crocodile, lying on the river bank, and the blue bottle-flies were buzzing round him.
Aso returned home and told her husband. 
Ananse said, "Now you see how a certain medicine I have, acts; when I kill meat (one day), not until things become visible, the next day, do I go and fetch it, but nevertheless I congratulate you on seeing it."
Ananse cut a stick and took it with him to the stream there, and there he came across the Crocodile. 
He poked at it with the stick, saying, "Crocodile, are you dead? Crocodile, are you dead?" and he turned it over and over. 
And the Crocodile lay still, but he was not dead. 
When Ananse was about to take his hand to touch it, the Crocodile suddenly snapped him, kua! 
Ananse struggled, petere! petere! and found a way to escape. 
That is why, when the Spider passes on the water, he hastens along; he is afraid that the Crocodile will come to catch him again.
This, my story, which I have related, if it be sweet, (or) if it be not sweet, take some elsewhere, and let some come back to me.
