The story how thunder came for the first time.
A small, small rat (Eliri) gave birth to three sons; an elephant, a buffalo, and a ram. 
They made a farm in which the elephant planted okro ; the buffalo osum, and the ram igba. 
The three sons told their mother she must go to their farm when in need and take her choice of what was there.
The first time the mother Eliri came she took okro and igba, but the second time she found out that someone had been there before her, and she cursed the man that stole, praying that he would not die well. 
(Chorus: okro, osum, igba!) 
Then Irogun the bird came from the bush and said, “I, Irogun, I came to this farm, I plucked the elephant's okro, the buffalo's osum, and the ram’s igba.”
And the bird Irogun took a whip and flogged the mother.
When the mother reached home she told her son, the elephant, that she had been to the farm, had seen things
stolen, and that while she cursed the thief, Irogun the bird
 came from the bush, acknowledged the theft, and, moreover, flogged her into the bargain.
The elephant replied that he had seen no one who would so dare to flog his mother, and that he would come to the farm.
So the small rat Eliri and the elephant her son came to the farm and the mother repeated the cursing. 
(Chorus: okro, osum, igba!) 
Then Irogun the bird came out and drove the elephant and the mother away. 
When they reached home Eliri the mother repeated the story to her son the buffalo, saying how she had been flogged, and she and the elephant together driven away by Irogun the bird. 
The buffalo said it was impossible that anyone could so flog the elephant, but that he himself would go to the place and see.
So the mother and her son the buffalo went, and, as before, the mother cursed. 
(Chorus: okro, osum, igba!) 
Irogun the bird again appeared, and, flogging both mother and son, drove them away. 
They returned home, and the mother went to make complaint to the ram.
Meanwhile the ram had gone to market, but his mother went out and met him by the way, and related what had occurred and how she had been flogged. 
Then the ram put down the load he was carrying and said he should like to see the man who could so flog his mother Eliri, the small, small rat.
Then the mother and her son the ram went to the farm, and the ram asked his mother to repeat the curse. 
This she did. 
(Chorus: okro, osum, igba!) 
And the bird Irogun again appeared, and repeated to the ram what he had said to the elephant and the buffalo, that he was the man who had stolen from the farm.
Then the ram wrestled with Irogun the bird, until his horns were broken and the claws of Irogun were broken also.
Then they paused, and the ram sent home for ten new horns and the bird Irogun for ten new claws.