We do not really mean, we do not really mean, (that what we are going to say is true)
HOW IT CAME ABOUT THAT THE HINDER PART OF KWAKU ANANSE, THE SPIDER, BECAME BIG, AT THE EXPENSE OF HIS HEAD, WHICH BECAME SMALL 
THEY say that once a great hunger came, and that Kwaku Ananse said he would go and search for meat and vegetable food and bring it that he and his wife Aso might eat. 
He went into a certain stream and met people; now these people whom he met, excuse my saying so, were spirits.
When Ananse met the Spirits, they were standing in the water and splashing the stream-bed dry to catch the fish. 
Kwaku Ananse said, " Brothers, may I come and splash a little too? " 
The Spirits said, " Come." 
Ananse went, and he saw that they were using their skulls to splash the stream dry. 
The Spirits said to Ananse, " You have seen that which we take to splash the stream dry, will you allow us to remove your skull in order that you may splash too? " 
Ananse said, " I will permit you, take it off for me." 
Of a truth, the Spirits removed it and gave it to him. 
Kwaku Ananse and the Spirits joined together in splashing the bed of the stream dry. 
As they splashed, the Spirits raised a song: " We, the Spirits, when we splash the river-bed dry to catch fish, we use our heads to splash the water, Oh, the Spirits, we are splashing the water."
The Spider said, "This song is sweet, may I sing some of it? " 
The Spirits said," Sing some." 
And he lifted up his voice:" The Spirits, we are splashing the water, we take our heads to splash the water.
Oh, the Spirits, we are splashing the water. Since the Creator made things, do we take our heads to splash the water? Oh, the Spirits, we are splashing the water. I take my head to splash the water dry to-day o, Oh, the Spirits, we are splashing the water."
Ananse finished singing, and the Spirits told him, saying, "We have splashed, we have got fish, your share is a basket full, take it and go and eat, take your skull, join it (on your body), and go off; but what we have to say most particularly is this, the very day you sing any of that song, your skull will open and fall off."
The Spider said, "Fish in abundance which you have given to me, is all I desire, and as for a song, for what reason should I sing it? " 
The Spirits said, "That is well, go off." 
The Spider set off. 
The Spirits, too, got everything together, and they, too, went away. 
When the Spirits had reached yonder, as it were, then they raised their song: "We, the Spirits, when we splash the river-bed dry to catch fish, we use our heads to splash the water. Oh, the Spirits, we are splashing the water."
And the Spider heard the song, and he, too, took it up: " Since the Creator made things have we taken our heads to splash the water?" Oh, the Spirits, we are splashing the water.“
No sooner had he finished than his skull opened and dropped off. 
Ananse lifted it up and held it against his chest. 
He said, " Spirits, Spirits, my head has fallen off." 
The Spirits heard, and they said, "That's the Spider, he hasn't listened to what we told him, and he is calling us, let us all go back and hear what he will say." 
Almost immediately, the Spider came hastening along. 
He said, " Puo! children of my father; my head has opened and fallen off, so I beg of you, if I have done you any harm, forgive it; you are in the right, but take my head and put it back in its place for me." 
The Spirits took it, and replaced it. 
They said to him, "Now if you sing this song again, and it falls off again, when you call us, we shall not answer, so get along with you." 
The Spirits set off again.
As they were going they sang their song. 
And now Ananse began to sing again, and his head became detached and fell off, kutukum! 
And he lifted it and, excuse my vulgarity, clapped it against his anus, and leaped to the side of the path, sora! was the sound of the grass parting as he entered it). 
He said, " Path, save me, and when the day dawns that I become rich, I shall give you some." 
That is why you will see Ananse with a small head and a very big bottom; it all comes from the hardness of his ears.
This, my story, which I have related, if it be sweet, (or) if it be not sweet, take some elsewhere, and let some come back to me.
