We do not really mean, we do not really mean, (that what we are going to say is true)
HOW KWAKU ANANSE (THE SPIDER) GOT ASO IN MARRIAGE
THERE once lived a certain man called Akwasi-the-jealous-one and his
wife was Aso, and he did not want any one to see Aso or any one to
talk to her. So he went and built a small settlement for Aso to live in it.
No one ever went into the village. Now he, Akwasi-the-jealous-one, could
not beget children. Because of that, if he and his wife lived in town, some one
would take her away. Now, the Sky-god told young men, saying, "Akwasi-the
jealous-one has been married to Aso for a very very long time; she has not con
ceived by him and borne a child, therefore he who is able, let him go and take
Aso, and should she conceive by him, let him take her (as his wife)." All the
young men tried their best to lay hands on her, but not one was able. Now
Kwaku Ananse was there watching these events, (and) he said, "I can go to
Akwasi-the-jealous-one's village." The Sky-god
said, "Can you really do so?" Ananse said, "If
you will give me what I require." The Sky-god
said, " What kind of thing?" He said, "Medicine
for gun and bullets." And the Sky-god gave him.
And Ananse took the powder and bullets to
(various) small villages, saying, "The Sky-god
has bade me bring powder and bullets to you, and
you are to go and kill meat, and on the day I shall_
return here, I shall take it and depart." He dis
tributed the powder and the bullets among very
many small villages, until all were finished. All
the villagers got him some meat. On a certain day,
Ananse wove a palm-leaf basket. Its length, as it
were, was from here to over yonder. Ananse took
it to the small villages, where he had distributed
the powder and bullets, to receive all the meat
which they had killed. Father Ananse took the
meat and palm-leaf basket and set it on his head,
and set out on the path leading to the Akwasi
the-jealous-one's settlement. When he reached
the stream from which Akwasi and his wife drank, he picked out some meat and
put it in. Ananse strove hard and brought the palm-leaf basket (full of meat) and
passed through the main entrance leading into Akwasi-the-jealous-one's compound.
And Aso saw him. She said, "Akwasi e! come and look at something which is
coming to the house here, for what can it be? " Ananse said, " It's the Sky-god
who is sending me, and I am weary, and I am coming to sleep here." Akwasi-the
jealous-one said, " I have heard my Lord's servant." Aso said to Ananse, "Father
man, some of your meat has fallen down at the main entrance to the compound."
The Spider said," Oh, if you happen to have a dog let him go and take it and chew
it." So Aso went and got it and gave it to her husband. Then Ananse said, "Mother,
set some food (on the fire) for me." Aso put some on, and Ananse said, "Mother,
is it fufuo that you are cooking or eto ? " Aso replied, " Fufuo." Ananse said,
"Then it is too little; go and fetch a big pot." Aso went and fetched a big one,
and Ananse said, " Come and get meat." There were forty hind-quarters of great
beasts. He said, "Take these only and put them in, and if you had a pot big
enough, I would give you enough meat to chew to make your teeth fall out."
Aso finished (preparing) the food, turned it out (of the pot), and placed it on
a table, splashed water, and put it beside (the rest of the food). Then Aso took
her portion and went and set it down near the fire, and the men went and sat
down beside the table. They touched the backs of each other's hands (i.e. eat out
of the same dish). All the time they were eating, Kwaku Ananse said, " There
is no salt in this fufuo." Akwasi said to Aso, "Bring some." But Ananse said,
"Not at all, when the woman is eating, you tell her to get up to bring salt, do
you yourself go and bring it." Akwasi rose up, and Ananse looked into his bag,
and took out a pinch of purgative medicine and put it in the fufuo. Then he
called Akwasi, saying, " Come, for I had brought some with me." When Akwasi
came, Ananse said, " Oh, I shall eat no more, I am full." Akwasi, who suspected
nothing, continued eating. When they had finished eating, Akwasi said, " Friend,
we and you are sitting here and yet we do not know your name." Ananse replied,
" I am called Rise-up-and-make-love-to-Aso." Akwasi said, " I have heard, and
you, Aso, have you heard this man's name? " Aso replied, "Yes, I have heard."
Akwasi rose up to go and prepare one of the spare bedrooms, and to make all
comfortable. He said, " Rise-up-and-make-love-to-Aso, this is your room, go and
sleep there." The Spider said, " I am the Soul-washer to the Sky-god, and I sleep
in an open veranda room; since mother bore me and father begat me, I have
never slept in a closed bedroom." Akwasi said, "Then where, then, will you
sleep? " He replied, "Were I to sleep in this open veranda room here, to do so
would be to make you equal to the Sky-god, for it would mean that I was sleeping
in the Sky-god's open veranda room, since I am never to sleep in any one's open
room (except that of a Sky-god), and since that is so, I shall just lie down in front
of this closed sleeping-room where you repose." The man took out a sleeping-mat
and laid it there for him. Akwasi and his wife went to rest, and Ananse, too, lay
down there. Ananse lay there and he slipped in the cross-bar (of the bedroom
door). Ananse lay there, and took his musical bow (and sang):
"Akuamoa Ananse, to-day we shall achieve something to-day.
Ananse, the child of Nsia, the mother of Nyame, the Sky-god,
To-day we shall achieve something, to-day.
Ananse, the Soul-washer to the Nyame, the Sky-god,
To-day I shall see something."
Now, he ceased playing his sepirewa, and he laid it aside, and lay down. He slept
for some time, when he heard Akwasi-the-jealous-one calling, " Father man."
not a sound in reply (except the chirping of the cicada), dinn! " Father man"
-not a sound in reply (except the chirping of the cicada), dinn! Akwasi-the
jealous-one is dying; the medicine has taken effect on him, but he calls, " Father
man "-not a sound in reply (except the chirping of the cicada), dinn! At last
he said, " Rise-up-and-make-love-to-Aso." The Spider said, "M! M! M! " He,
Akwasi, said, " Open (the door) for me." Ananse opened (the door), and Akwasi
went somewhere. And the Spider rose up and went into the room there. He said,
"Aso, did you not hear what your husband said?" She replied, "What did he
say? " He (Ananse) replied, " He said I must rise up and make love to you."
Aso said, "You don't lie." And he did it for her, and he went and lay down.
That night, Akwasi rose up nine times; the Spider also went nine times to where
Aso was. When things became visible, next morning, Ananse set off. It would
be about two moons later when Aso's belly became large. Akwasi questioned her,
saying, "Why has your belly got like this, perhaps you are ill, for (you know)
that I who live with you here, am unable to beget children? " Aso replied," You
forget that man who came here and whom you told to rise up and make love to
Aso, well, he took me and I have conceived by him." Akwasi-the-jealous-one
said, " Rise up and let me take you to go and give (you) to him." They went to
the Sky-god's town. On the way, Aso gave birth. They reached the Sky-god's
town, and went and told the Sky-god what had happened, saying, "A subject of
yours, whom you sent, slept at my house, and took Aso, and she conceived by
him." The Sky-god said, "All my subjects are roofing the huts, go and point out
the one you mean." They went off, and the Spider was sitting on a ridge
pole. Aso said, "There he is." And Ananse ran and sat on the middle. And
again Aso said, "There he is." Then Ananse fell down from up there (where he
was sitting). Now that day was Friday. Ananse said, "I, who wash the Sky-god's
soul, you have taken your hand and pointed it at me, so that I have fallen down
and got red earth upon me." Immediately the attendants seized hold of Akwasi
the-jealous-one and (made him) sacrifice a sheep. When Akwasi-the-jealous-one
had finished sacrificing the sheep, he said to the Sky-god, " Here is the woman,
let Ananse take her." So Ananse took Aso, but as for the infant, they killed it,
cut it into pieces, and scattered them about. That is how jealousy came among
the tribe.
This, my story, which I have related, if it be sweet, (or) if it be not sweet, some
you may take as true, and the rest you may praise me (for telling of it).