We do not really mean, we do not really mean, (that what we are going to say is true)
ANANSE, THE SPIDER, SAID HE WAS GOING IN SEARCH OF A FOOL, WHILE ALL THE TIME HE HIMSELF WAS A FOOL 
ANANSE, the Spider, was once living there, and he said he was wanting a fool to go with him to set fish-traps.
He wandered all about, but could not get one. 
Then he met Osansa, the Hawk. 
He said, " Let us go and set fish-traps." 
The Hawk replied, " I have (plenty) meat to eat." 
Afterwards he met Anene, the Crow, and he said, "Let us go and set fish-traps." 
The Crow said, " I have heard." 
Now, the Hawk said to the Crow, "About this fish trap-setting expedition on which you and Ananse are going, don't go, for Ananse says he is looking for a fool, that when he and the fool set fish-traps, he will get all the money." 
The Crow replied, "You need not say any more, for I will see to it that I get all the money." 
The Crow and the Spider set out for the bush to cut palm branches. 
The Crow said to Ananse, " Give me the knife and I shall go and cut (them), and your work will be to take the weariness (resulting from my labour)." 
The Spider replied, " Do you take me for a fool; let me do the cutting, while you will take the weariness thereof." 
Ananse was cutting (the palms) while Anene, the Crow, sat there groaning. 
When he had finished cutting (them), they tied them (in a bundle). 
The Crow said, " Spider, let me take and carry them, while you will take the weariness thereof." 
The Spider replied, " Get out, you take me for a fool? " 
And he took them and placed them on his head. 
The Crow followed behind and he was groaning. 
When they reached home, the Crow said, " Let me make the fish-traps and you take the weariness of my labours."
Ananse replied, " Never; let me make them and do you take the weariness."
Then the Crow went and reclined on his back, and he was groaning. 
Ananse said, " Fool, you say you have sense, and yet you are dying." 
The Spider completed the fish-traps. 
The Crow said, " Let me carry the fish-traps and take them to the water, and do you take the weariness thereof." 
The Spider said, "No, I shall go with them, and you take the weariness thereof."  
Ananse said, "Ah, you take me for a proper fool; 
I myself shall set the traps, and if he bites me, you will take the death thereof." 
Ananse took the fish-traps and set them in the water, and they came back home. 
Next morning, when things became visible, they went to examine the traps, and they had caught two fish. 
The Crow said, " Spider, you take these two, and when tomorrow we come, and (the traps) have caught four, I in turn shall take them."
The Spider replied, "This fellow! You take me for a proper fool; you take these two, and to-morrow, I in turn will take the four." 
The Crow took them. 
Next morning they went (again to visit the traps), and they got out four (fish). 
The Crow said, "You take these four, and when to-morrow we come and have caught eight, I in turn shall take them." 
The Spider replied, "You take me for a fool; you have these four, and to-morrow I, too, shall take the eight." 
Next morning they went (to visit the traps) and got out eight. 
The Crow said, "Take (them), and to-morrow I, too, will take the sixteen." 
The Spider said, " You take me for fool; do you take the eight, and to-morrow I shall have the sixteen." 
By now the fish-traps have become worn out, and the Crow addressed the Spider, saying, " Go and fetch these rotten fish-traps, and when one sells them, one will get ntanu (i. e. (,i6) for each single (trap), so do you, Father Spider, take these fish, and take the rotten fish-traps and give them to me." 
The Spider said, "No, do you take the fish and go and sell them, and I shall take the rotten fish-traps and take (the proceeds)." 
They carried (their things) off to a market. 
Immediately the Crow had disposed of all his goods; he got much gold dust. 
But there remained the Spider's (goods). 
Then the Crow said to him, "Take these rotten fish-traps and hawk them round and they will buy them." 
The Spider lifted them up; he said, " I am selling rotten fish-traps! " 
Now the head-man of the village heard (him), and he s‑aid, "Where does this fellow come from; go and call him to come." The Spider went. 
The head-man said, " Do you suppose that we folk in the village here are fools; now your friend (here) came and sold fish (with profit), have you not noticed him, but you would dispose of rotten fish-traps to us? "
The head-man said, " Flog him." 
So they beat him. 
Then the Crow said, "Spider, you have seen, your eyes are dead for shame; you said you were going in search of a fool to work with you, and you have (now) perceived that you yourself were the fool."
This, my story, which I have related, if it be sweet, (or) if it be not sweet, take some elsewhere, and let some come back to me.