How the parrot's beak became bent.
One day the parrot and the cowries began to argue, for the latter had said that they would build such a house that there would be none like it in the world, while the parrot in his turn said, “Not only can you not do this, but I will make a house larger and grander than yours.” 
They then agreed both to start building, the cowries making their house of cowries throughout, while the parrot plucked out all the feathers from the other parrots' tails and built his house of these from top to bottom. 
When both houses were completed it as clear to the cowries that the parrot's house was the better, and the cowries invited all the birds to come to them and related the preceding circumstances, finishing by saying, “We must steal the parrot's house. Will you assist us in carrying it away ?” 
Now as the parrot had no friends amongst the birds (for the frog was his only friend and at the same time his bugler),
he did not hear of this conspiracy, but went on working in order to pay back the other parrots for the loss of their tail feathers, for he had plucked them only on certain conditions. 
Now the cowries on the other hand were free men.
One day the parrot went to work at a place far away, as far as from Ijebu Erimu to Ilorin (i.e., many days' journey), leaving the frog at home. 
Then came the cowries with all the birds to carry away the house. 
The frog was alone and, not knowing what to do, took his flute and began to blow on it, on hearing which the parrot came back.
As the parrot neared the house he cried out to the frog, “Don’t fear, I am coming, anyone I meet I will kill and tear to pieces,” and the first he saw he did unto as he had said he would. 
On the second day the cowries said, “Who will again go and try and get the house ?' 
And the hawk answered, “I will go,” but when he got to the house he met the frog, and the frog blew on his flute again, and the parrot gain heard and came and killed the hawk. 
Then once more the cowries said, “Who will again go?” 
And a small bird named Aroñi offered. 
But the cowries said, “No, you are too small.” 
Nevertheless Aroñi persisted saying, “No, let me try and you will see,” and they replied, “Try on.” 
Then Aroñi said, “Give me seven cowries,” and he took them to the market and bought foods and peppers and tying them up went off to the parrot's house. 
There, as had the other birds, he met the frog, and after saluting him said, “I hear you are skilled in playing the flute; may I look at it?”
The frog thereupon handed it to him. 
Aroñi, under pretence of examining it, filled up the mouthpiece with the dainty foods and peppers he had bought in the market. 
Finally he handed it back with the remark that it was indeed a good flute, then suddenly commenced to lift the house.
At this the frog caught up the flute to blow, but finding something dropped into his mouth put the flute down in order to swallow it; again he jerked up the flute to blow, again something fell into his mouth, again he lowered the instrument. 
Meanwhile Aroñi had carried away the house to the cowries. 
But when the frog had finished all that there was in the flute he blew (Chorus), and the parrot hearing thought his house was attacked as before, but coming back found to his surprise that he was too late, and that it had gone.
He went to sack the cowries' house. 
Now this house had seven gates (each leading to a courtyard) before the real house was reached, and the seventh gate was of iron.
The parrot split the first gate with his beak, and the second and the third and so on to the seventh. 
At the seventh he struck in vain as it was of iron, but his beak was bent and has so remained until this day.